                                   

                   4th WORKSHOP ON MOBILE OBJECT SYSTEMS:
                    Secure Internet Mobile Computations

     In association with the 12th European Conference on Object-Oriented
                           Programming (ECOOP'98)
                                     and
              The ECOOP Workshop on Distributed Object Security

                      21 July 1998, Brussels, Belgium.
                       http://cuiwww.unige.ch/~ecoopws

     -----------------------------------------------------------------------

                              Call for Participation

Keywords: security, protection, mobile computation formalisms, mobile object
systems, mobile code, programming languages, mobile agents, java.

Applications executing over the Internet are currently of major interest to
academe and industry. Mobility of code, and of running computations and
objects, is widely regarded as an attractive paradigm for programming these
applications. Yet, in order for the mobile object technology to be more
widely accepted, innovative security solutions that provide solid security
guarantees to clients and service providers have to be developed.

The 4th Workshop in the ECOOP series on Mobile Object Systems aims to bring
together mobile object system and language designers, security experts, and
generally people interested in discussing the current state and future
direction of security research in the mobile object system context. The
workshop will be a forum to learn about the latest research, and also to
discuss and exchange ideas concerning on-going theoretical and
implementation work.

It is our goal to bring you together with people from different research and
development communities working towards the same goal as you!

The workshop will be held on the 21th of July 1998, just prior to the
ECOOP'98 conference taking place in Brussels, Belgium.

Topics covered

This year's workshop focuses on the security aspects of mobile computations.
The list of topics includes, but is not limited to, the following:

   * Theoretical foundations of secure mobile computations,
   * Mobile object code verification techniques,
   * Security policy modeling for mobile object systems,
   * Security protocols for agent authentication,
   * Integrity and availability issues in mobile object systems,
   * Secure language and system implementation techniques,
   * Java security issues relevant to mobility and mobile code,
   * Mobility related experience reports and horror stories,
   * Secure mobile object system applications.

The workshop is being organized as part of a "double bill" with the ECOOP
workshop on Distributed Object Security. Thus, authors wishing to submit
papers on general security issues are invited to submit that workshop; its
call for papers can be found http://sirac.inrialpes.fr/~jensen/ewdos.html

Submission of papers

Both full papers (maximum 15 pages) and position papers (1 page) are
welcome. Authors wishing to submit a paper should send the paper in
postscript form to the e-mail address ecoopws@cui.unige.ch by April 13,
1998. Along with the submitted paper, authors are requested to send a brief
biography, 6 to 7 lines maximum, which should include a description of their
current research activities.

We encourage not only submissions presenting original research results, but
also papers that attempt to establish links between different approaches to
mobile object system development, and/or papers that include survey
material. Original research results should be clearly described, and their
usefulness to practitioners outlined.

The best full papers will be published in the workshop proceedings.

Furthermore, in view of the cooperation with the ECOOP workshop on
distributed object security, papers received that seem better suited for
that workshop will be forwarded to its organizers.

Workshop format

Paper selection will be based on the quality of the submitted material. The
number of participants will be limited, and attendance will be by invitation
only. Authors whose papers are accepted will be invited to give a
presentation.

An e-mail forum will be set up before the workshop to foster exchange and
prepare for the discussion topics.

Important Dates

   * April 13: Deadline for submission of papers.
   * May 15: Notification to authors.
   * June 15: Final version of papers.
   * July 20: Distributed Object Security Workshop.
   * July 21: Secure Internet Mobile Computations Workshop.

Programme Committee

   * Martin Abadi, DEC SRC
   * Brian Bershad, Univ. of Washington
   * Luca Cardelli, Microsoft Research
   * Giuseppe Castagna, ENS
   * Robert Gray, Dartmouth College
   * Dag Johansen, Univ. of Tromso
   * Eric Jul, DIKU Univ. Copenhagen
   * Doug Lea, SUNY Oswego
   * Christian Tschudin, Univ. Zurich
   * Dennis Volpano, NSP

Organizers

   * Ciaran Bryce, Univ. of Geneva
   * Leila Ismail, INRIA Rhone-Alpes
   * Jan Vitek, Univ. of Geneva
